Hello and welcome.
In this lecture we are going to be implementing our own custom gizmos.
You can see here this guy when I have him selected I can see his chase distance.
So if I'm outside it he's not gonna chase me if I'm inside he'll chase and I can select any of the other
guards and see theirs as well.
So let's dive in and see how we can make our own gizmos.
It's a really cool thing to do.
So it's currently a little bit hard for a designer to visualize how large the chase radius of any enemy
actually is.
So what we want to do is enable that to be visible using gizmos so we can see an example of gizmos here
being used within unity.
So we've got a capsule gizmo we've got this cylinder gizmo around the enemy which are being used by
the nav mesh agent and the capsule component respectively.
We've also got actually these arrows are gizmos of sorts as well.
So gizmos are very useful for visualizing things and sometimes providing a level of control as well.
So what we want to do is create our own gizmos that allow us to see the chase distance and allow the
basically the designer to automatically edit that.
How can we do that.
Well there is a problem because we want this to be able to be seen when we are editing and when we're
editing start and updates are not getting called.
In fact none of our code is usually going to be called during update.
But there is a special method which if you've got the same extensions as me you can have a snippet for
called on draw gizmos.
So if you do on draw gizmos then what you're going to get is the ability to well basically unity will
call this when it wants you to draw gizmos.
So this for example we I'm just gonna put a comment here saying called by unity because sometimes people
won't know that these are unity messages like update and start because they're not as common.
It's sometimes good to comment it.
So if someone else coming to read your code or you down the line.
Forgotten about draw gizmos.
You'll be able to do this by the way there's a system method to this that we saw which was on draw gizmos
selected and on draw gizmos selected will only draw them when that when your object is selected.
That's what's going on with our capsule component for example.
So maybe actually that is what we would rather use.
So it's gonna be on draw gizmos selected and it's doing it twice for me.
They get onto a gizmo selected.
So this now is going to whenever we have our characters selected show us what the chase distances.
Well no it's not.
Not yet anyway because we need to make some calls to the gizmo API now.
I have included a link to the gizmo API on you on unity and the unity docs and do have a look at that
but I can also do it with auto complete so gizmos dot is generally where everything belongs where everything
is and what you can do here is you can do it gives most dot color for example and it's what I would
call a procedural API.
And what that means is that you can set the color to say I don't know what color.
How do you do this.
That's right.
You can do color dots and then you can select from one of these colors you could also construct your
color from scratch they could be new color so I am using the English spelling that's the problem.
So color and then you can give it the float values of RG B and the Alpha color as well if you want to
but I'm just going to keep it simple and use a named color here.
So I'm going to go with blue and what this means is that now any other calls that I do to the gizmos
API is going to be drawing the gizmos in blue.
That's what I mean by procedural.
It means that you set some set up some variables and you do some calls.
The alternative would be if when I did any of the draw calls I had to pass in the color that I want.
That would be a non procedural API.
So this is your chance to actually go a little bit further and do a challenge.
We are going to draw a sphere.
And for this I would like you to investigate the API that are available from unity in the gizmo dot
levels.
And what will you use.
There are multiple options available here what seems to suit best for drawing a sphere and then trying
to represent the distance.
That's the idea we want the distance being represented when we have the enemy selected pause video and
have a OK.
Welcome back.
So there are a few options under gizmos that we could be using so gizmos dot and you can see there is
a draw sphere but this creates a solid sphere if I hover over it says solid sphere.
That might not be ideal.
So what I'm gonna do is draw a wire sphere which is more like the stuff we're seeing here.
This is a wire capsule and a wire cylinder.
So I'm going to be drawing a wire sphere and you can see that the API takes a sensor to that sphere.
What should we give.
There have a think about that going to use the transform dot position and then the radius is straightforwardly
just going to be the chase distance that we have.
Okay.
So that should do the trick.
They should draw a blue wire sphere when we have enemy selected.
Let's have a look.
There we go.
We've got a blue wire sphere.
Exactly when this enemy is selected.
If I select a different enemy I will see his chase radius instead.
So this just means we're not gonna be having gizmos all over the place at any given time which would
be a little bit annoying.
Obviously we don't have a chase radius when we select ourselves.
So that is quite cool.
And what I can do is you'll see this sphere automatically gets updated.
The second I change the chase distance on this enemy.
So if I make this chase distant larger he's going to be an enemy that is particularly adept at chasing.
If I make it really small he is very short sighted myopic enemy.
So I can be starting right here in front of him and he won't even see me.
But if I move within his chase radius you see he attacks me.
I leave his chase radius.
He goes to the last location I was at gives up and then goes off walking again.
Okay.
So that is everything I wanted to cover in this lecture.
We've been able to visualize the radius with which we chase the next lecture.
We aren't going to be looking at having a bit of a guarding activity because at the moment you can see
that if I go and coax this guy he comes over to me and then loses interest and stops where he was.
But if he was guarding that particular spot he should probably return that.
So we're going to implement some guard like behavior see that.